Third-party libraries bring a lot of benefits,
but there are security concerns,
especially when dealing with wallets or anything that stores value.
We'll wrap up this lesson by discussing some of the best practices of working with
third-party libraries and wallets and talk about
using multisignature wallets as a security solution.
Have you seen working with RESTful frameworks and third-party library integrations,
such as bitcoin core npm?
Third-party libraries make development a lot easier,
but they can also introduce risks into your project.
Here are some best practices to keep in mind to help minimize these risks.
Use well-tested libraries.
Well-tested libraries come from
reputable sources with the advantage of being tested for many different scenarios.
Many enterprise companies create libraries for their own benefit,
but then release them to the public.
Since these companies have an incentive to make sure
the code doesn't negatively affect their own systems,
we as outside developers can benefit from their vetted code.
Thoroughly examine the documentation.
To know how to effectively use a third-party library,
you must read the documentation.
Proper documentation will help you learn about usage restrictions,
data input and output,
and other important implementation details.
Focus on scalable libraries.
Like we saw with hapi.js,
which is used for large businesses like Walmart,
choosing a scalable library means you won't have to rewrite
the code if your project grows beyond the limits of the third-party integration.
Lastly, check security.
This can't be said enough.
Working as a blockchain developer,
you'll often be dealing with confidential, high-value data.
With the rise of data theft and hacking,
pay close attention to security features of the library.
What data security and encryption does it provide?
You don't want to risk introducing your project to security vulnerabilities.
This goes hand in hand with thoroughly reading the documentation.
On the topic of security,
I want to mention multisignature wallets.
Multisignature wallets require more than one key to authorize the transaction.
Let's use bitcoin as an example that we're most familiar with.
Here, standard transactions require only one signature from the owner of the private key,
associated with the bitcoin address.
However, bitcoin networks support much more complicated transactions.
They require the signatures of multiple people before the funds can be transferred.
These are often referred to as m-of-n transactions.
The idea here is that there are multiple parties
involved in order for anything to get done.
These parties can be people,
institutions, or program scripts.
Multisignature scripts set a condition where there are n number of public keys,
at least m of them must provide signatures for the transaction to go through.
This is a m-of-n schema,
where n is the total number of keys,
and m is a threshold of signatures required for validation.
Depending on the network,
there may be a limit set to the number of n public keys.
Here are some real-world example use cases.
In a one of two schema,
say there's a husband and wife joint bank account.
The signature of either spouse is sufficient to spend the funds.
Smart contracts on Tumblebit, Coinswap,
and Lightning Network can have a two of two schema.
Meaning both parties must sign in for the contract to execute.
Here's a notable example in practice.
Bitfinex, one of the world's largest cryptocurrency exchanges uses a cold storage wallet.
Now, this is a wallet that is kept offline.
This is a three of six multisignature wallet.
This wallet as of December 2017,
contain over 141,000 bitcoins,
and that's valued at over $1.5 billion.
Presumably, the keys are kept very,
very safe by Bitfinex's operators.
A number of companies have developed multisignature wallets,
from Armory, to Coinbase,
to Electrum that we've worked with before.
In future development, you might find yourself working on
a platform that requires the security of a multisignature wallet,
requiring multiple parties to present a valid signature before the data can be accessed.
We won't be covering how to implement this now.
But, do keep this in mind in the future as a way to increase
the security of accessing data on your blockchain back room service.
To wrap this section up,
our topic of focus was security.
We discussed some of the best practices when it comes to using a third-party library,
and ended on the security offered by multisignature wallets.
Security will be a major concern on
almost every blockchain platform you end up building on.
So, be vigilant when leveraging existing code and
scoping out the safest route for interfacing with your blockchain.